
Discussion
Simulation 2 demonstrates that a common representation supports bidirectional expectations about saliva-sharing and comforting. Critically, this result generates a novel, testable prediction for future behavioral research: If infants rely on associative learning, then not only should they expect comforting following saliva sharing but also saliva sharing following comforting. One potential criticism of interpreting such a finding as support for an associative learning mechanism is that it may also be consistent with the predictions of other accounts. For example, an evolved predisposition to interpret saliva sharing and comforting as cues to relationship thickness could also give rise to bidirectional expectations if, over evolutionary time, both became linked to an underlying concept of relationship thickness. Thus, demonstrating that infants hold bidirectional expectations about saliva sharing and comforting may not be sufficient to distinguish between an associative learning account and one based on evolved predispositions. Although both perspectives may predict bidirectional expectations, it could be argued that they differ in how those expectations should change over time. For example, if the bidirectional expectation is the result of an associative learning mechanism, then the expectation should increase in strength with increased real-world exposure to saliva sharing and comforting. However, if this expectation is the result of an evolved predisposition, then the strength of this expectation should presumably remain relatively stable over development. Simulation 3 was carried out to test whether such a bidirectional expectation between saliva sharing and comforting increases in strength in an associative learning mechanism.

Network Architecture, Familiarization, and Test
Simulation 3 was identical to Simulation 2 except that networks at three different "ages" were tested: young, intermediate, and old. The pretraining phase lasted for 100 epochs for young networks, 350 epochs for intermediate networks, and 600 epochs for old networks. Additionally, the learning rate for young networks was 0.001, 0.01 for intermediate networks, and 0.1 for old networks. Finally, the number of hidden units was 10 for young networks, 20 for intermediate networks, and 30 for old networks.  The pretraining-phase-length parameter implemented the assumption that infants at different ages necessarily enter experiments with differing amounts of real-world experience. The learning-rate parameter instantiated the notion that processing speed improves with age. The number-of-hidden-units parameter captured the idea that infants' processing capacity improves with age. All three parameters implemented a simple model of development that is consistent with existing developmental simulation studies (e.g., Rakison & Lupyan, 2008; Benton, 2024).

Results
Figure 4 shows networks’ looking times to the Comforter and Non-Comforter across the Experimental and Control Conditions, Age, and Familiarization Epochs. Data for networks in these conditions were entered into a linear mixed-effects model with Test Trial as the within-subjects fixed effect (Comforter vs. Non-Comforter), Condition (Experimental vs. Control), Familiarization Epoch (5 vs. 10), and Age (Young vs. Intermediate vs. Old) as the between-subjects fixed effects, and participants as the random effect. The results revealed several main effects and two-way interactions, which were qualified by two three-way interactions. The first three-way interaction was between Test Trial, Age, and Condition, F(2, 228) = 27.31, p = 0. The second three-way interaction was between Age, Condition, and Epoch, F(2, 228) = 20.81, p = 0. Here, we only focus on the first three-way interaction because the second one was not theoretically meaningful. Follow-up analysis for each Age and Condition showed that the young networks looked equally at the Comforter and Non-Comforter in the Control and Experimental conditions. In contrast, intermediate networks looked longer at the Comforter (M = 3.43, SD = 1.05) than at the Non-Comforter (M = 1.88, SD = 1.06) in the Experimental condition, t(39) = 8.41, p = 0 but equally long at the Comforter (M = 2.55, SD = 1.29) and the Non-Comforter (M = 2.78, SD = 0.91) in the Control condition, t(39) = -1.02, p = .31 . Similarly, old networks looked longer at the Comforter (M = 11.47, SD = 2.24) than at the Non-Comforter (M = 7.38, SD = 3.83) in the Experimental condition, t(39) = 8.53, p = 0 but equally long at the Comforter (M = 3.30, SD = 1.14) and the Non-Comforter (M = 2.94, SD = 1.18) in the Control condition, t(39) = 1.57, p = .12. Crucially, it was the case that the difference in looking time to the Comforter and Non-Comforter in the Experimental condition increased with age; that is, the difference in looking time to the Comforter and Non-Comforter was greater for the intermediate networks (M = 1.55, SD = 1.17) than for the young networks (M = 0.06, SD = 0.26), t(42.93) = -7.90, p = 0. Similarly, this difference was greater for the old networks (M = 4.08, SD = 3.03) than the intermediate ones, t(50.30) = -4.94, p = 0. This supports the contention that the strength of the bidirectional expectation gets stronger with age.


